---
path: /software-for-5g
title: Software for 5G
---

The next generation of mobile broadband, 5G, is nearing its time. The
technology promises to allow mobile consumers to browse the web at 10x current
speed, stream 4K videos with little to no delay, and experience entirely new
versions of entertainment and media. The forthcoming arrival of the next
generation of wireless technology, however, is much more than just about a
better mobile experience. 5G represents a new, digital underpinning that will
allow virtually everything around us to be connected, and in doing so create
opportunities for new businesses.

Certainly, there will be companies that leverage 5G to fundamentally change the
way things operate across sectors, from healthcare to manufacturing and beyond.
However, there’s also a very interesting opportunity for businesses to develop
in support of the paradigm shifts.

### Orchestration of Hyper-local Compute:

With 5G, connectivity will reach an entirely new level. Hundreds of thousands –
even potentially millions – of simultaneously connected devices will spread
throughout our world, and with it the need for near real-time analytics and
services. Whether powering IoT, self-driving vehicles, drones, or smart cities,
edge computing will play a massive role in supporting the proliferation of
connected devices that accomplish incredible tasks. With edge, an entirely new
infrastructure is starting to emerge. On-device computing and micro data
centers that are as close as possible to the consumption point will be
commonplace. This new foundation, however, will require the development of
software that can orchestrate the real-time delivery of compute to all of the
devices, securely and without delay.

### Network Virtualization:

There will also need to be tools and frameworks that make it simple to deploy,
manage, and provision all of the applications and their hardware counterparts.
Network virtualization will be a key part of making this happen. In many ways,
the full promise of 5G cannot be realized without software-based networking,
which dramatically brings down CAPEX and OPEX, all the while lowering the
time-to-market and increasing network flexibility. As 5G begins to roll-out,
there will soon be startups that begin to fill the demand for this technology.

### Network Insights: With the spread of millions of connected devices,

virtualized networks, near-point data centers and edge computing, will come a
great deal of complexity. Network providers will have to rely on tools to help
them understand how their network is operating and what can be done to further
optimize network delivery. Because software-based networks will become the
norm, providers will be able to further rely on ML/AI to manage their networks,
providing advanced insights that can minimize network failures and aid in
troubleshooting, mitigation, and remediation.

5G will fundamentally change how our world operates. It will open up a new set
of network interactions and connectivity. Opportunities exist for software
companies to help build the underlying services and applications that will
support 5G, so that it can live up to its game changing potential.
